# capacitor-pwa-firebase-msg
Enable push notifications for Capacitor progressive web apps (PWA) using Firebase as a cloud messaging service

This is a Capacitor Web plugin that enables Push Notifications for Web apps. Read the [guide to set up Push Notifications with Firebase](https://capacitor.ionicframework.com/docs/guides/push-notifications-firebase/) first, then proceed with the setup instructions. 

## Setup Instructions
Go to **Project Settings** in the Firebase console. In the **General** section, copy the web app's Firebase config from **Firebase SDK snippet** and paste it as `plugins.PWAFirebaseMsg` in capacitor.config.json. Under the **Cloud Messaging** section, generate a new VAPID **Key Pair** under **Web configuration**, and provide the value to `plugins.PWAFirebaseMsg.vapidKey`. See example capacitor.config.json below:

```json
{
  "appId": "app.capacitor.my",
  "appName": "My Capacitor App",
  "serviceWorker": {
    "name": "capacitor-sw.js",
    "combineWorkers": ["capacitor-pwa-firebase-msg-sw.js", "ngsw-worker.js"],
  },
  "plugins": {
    "PWAFirebaseMsg": {
      "apiKey": "ABC123def456-GHI789jkl012-MNO345pqr678",
      "authDomain": "mycapacitorapp-abc123.firebaseapp.com",
      "databaseURL": "https://mycapacitorapp-abc123.firebaseio.com",
      "projectId": "mycapacitorapp-abc123",
      "storageBucket": "mycapacitorapp-abc123.appspot.com",
      "messagingSenderId": "1234567890",
      "appId": "1:1234567890:web:abcdef123456",
      "vapidKey": "ABC123def456-GHI789jkl012-MNO345pqr678"
    }
  },
  "npmClient": "npm",
  "webDir": "www"
}
```

Add `capacitor-pwa-firebase-msg-sw.js` to Capacitor's aggregate service worker. If the app uses other service workers, provide their locations (relative to `webDir`, that is the "www" folder) to `serviceWorker.combineWorkers` in capacitor.config.json.

**Important**: If you are using the Angular service worker, make sure `capacitor-pwa-firebase-msg-sw.js` precedes `ngsw-worker.js` in the aggregate service worker `capacitor-sw.js`.  If Angular's service worker handles notifications first, this plugin won't work.  See above example for appropriate configuration of `serviceWorker.combineWorkers`.

After production builds of the app, run `npx cap copy web` from the command line. This will copy Capacitor's aggregate service worker to the `webDir`. `npx cap copy web` will also copy all the supporting files to `webDir` (very specifically, firebase.config.json, firebase-messaging.js, firebase-app.js and capacitor-pwa-firebase-msg-sw.js will be copied to the `webDir`).

Ensure that your app uses `capacitor-sw.js` as its service worker. The service worker filename generated by `npx cap copy web` can be overridden with `serviceWorker.name` in `capacitor.config.json`. See above example again.

In an Angular PWA, for example, the following code in `app.module.ts` will use `capacitor-sw.js` as a service worker:

```ts
import { ServiceWorkerModule } from '@angular/service-worker';

/* ... */

@NgModule({
  imports: [
    ServiceWorkerModule.register('capacitor-sw.js', { enabled: true })
    /* ... */
```

### Usage
After setup, in your app code, import the plugin so that it can register itself with Capacitor:

```ts
import "capacitor-pwa-firebase-msg";
```

Now you can use it using the same `PushNotification` Capacitor plugin name.  You may already have code for this if you already handled push notifications for Android or iOS platforms using Capacitor's built-in [PushNotification API](https://capacitor.ionicframework.com/docs/apis/push-notifications):

```ts
import { Plugins } from '@capacitor/core';

const { PushNotifications } = Plugins;

PushNotifications.register();

PushNotifications.addListener('registration', /* ... */);

PushNotifications.addListener('pushNotificationReceived', /* ... */);

PushNotifications.addListener('pushNotificationActionPerformed', , /* ... */);
```
